chickens_app/README.md, before:

# Save the Chickens - Agent & MCP Architecture

This directory contains the source code for the "Save the Chickens" AI agent.

## Architecture Overview

The agent uses a **Model Context Protocol (MCP)** architecture to decouple the LLM reasoning engine (ADK Agent) from the tool execution environment (BigQuery & IoT Mock).

```mermaid
graph TD
    User[User] <--> WebUI["ADK Web UI"]
    WebUI <--> Agent["ADK Agent (agent.py)"]
    Agent <-->|Async Calls| Client["MCP Client (mcp_client.py)"]
    Client <-->|Stdio| Server["MCP Server Process (mcp_server.py)"]
    Server <-->|SQL| BQ[("BigQuery")]
    Server <-->|Mock| IoT["IoT Fridge Sensor"]
    Agent <-->|A2A Call| Marketing["Marketing Agent (marketing_app)"]
```

## Components

### 1. Agent (`agent.py`)
- **Role**: The "Brain".
- **Model**: `gemini-2.5-flash`.
- **Configuration**: Loads environment variables and instructions.
- **Tools**: Registers the MCP client methods and A2A tools.

### 2. MCP Client (`mcp_client.py`)
- **Role**: The "Bridge".
- **Function**: Adapts the ADK tool interface to the MCP protocol.
- **Mechanism**: Spawns the MCP server process on-demand for each tool call using standard input/output (stdio).
- **Async**: Provides async methods (`query_dataset`, `get_store_temperature`) to avoid blocking the agent loop.

### 3. MCP Server (`mcp_server.py`)
- **Role**: The "Worker".
- **Tech**: Built with `mcp.server.fastmcp`.
- **Tools Provided**:
    - `query_dataset(query)`: Executes read-only SQL against BigQuery.
    - `list_tables()`: Lists available tables.
    - `get_table_schema(table)`: Returns table schema.
    - `get_store_temperature(store_id)`: Returns mock IoT sensor data.

### 4. Instructions (`agent_instructions.txt`)
- **Role**: The "Rulebook".
- Contains strict protocols for:
    - SQL generation (fuzzy matching, date handling).
    - Business logic (low stock definitions, waste analysis).
    - Output formatting (markdown tables).
    - **Delegation**: When to call the Marketing Agent.

## Tools Description

| Tool | Description | Source |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `query_dataset` | Executes SQL queries. Requires `db-dtypes` and `tabulate` for formatting. | BigQuery |
| `list_tables` | Lists all tables in the `save_the_chickens` dataset. | BigQuery |
| `get_table_schema` | Returns column names and types for a table. | BigQuery |
| `get_store_temperature` | Returns current temperature and status for store freezers. | Mock IoT |
| `consult_marketing_expert` | Delegates creative writing tasks to the Marketing Agent. | A2A (Marketing App) |

## Development

### Adding a New Tool
1.  **Server**: Add a decorated function `@mcp.tool()` in `mcp_server.py`.
2.  **Client**: Add a corresponding `async def` method in `mcp_client.py` that calls `self._run_tool()`.
3.  **Agent**: Register the new client method in the `tools` list in `agent.py`.
4.  **Instructions**: Update `agent_instructions.txt` to tell the agent when to use it.

Commit message:

Refactor to use BQ and Maps Remote MCP servers

chickens_app/README.md, after:

# Save the Chickens - Agent & MCP Architecture

This directory contains the source code for the "Save the Chickens" AI agent.

## Architecture Overview

The agent uses a **Model Context Protocol (MCP)** architecture to decouple the LLM reasoning engine (ADK Agent) from the tool execution environment. It connects to **Remote MCP Servers** for BigQuery and Maps, and uses a local function for the IoT mock.

```mermaid
graph TD
    User[User] <--> WebUI["ADK Web UI"]
    WebUI <--> Agent["ADK Agent (agent.py)"]
    Agent <-->|Remote MCP| BQServer["BigQuery MCP Server"]
    Agent <-->|Remote MCP| MapsServer["Maps MCP Server"]
    BQServer <-->|SQL| BQ[("BigQuery")]
    MapsServer <-->|API| Maps["Google Maps Platform"]
    Agent <-->|Local Function| IoT["IoT Fridge Sensor (Mock)"]
    Agent <-->|A2A Call| Marketing["Marketing Agent (marketing_app)"]
```

## Components

### 1. Agent (`agent.py`)
- **Role**: The "Brain".
- **Model**: `gemini-2.5-flash`.
- **Configuration**: Loads environment variables and instructions.
- **Tools**: Configures MCP toolsets and registers A2A tools.

### 2. MCP Tool Configuration (`mcp_server.py`)
- **Role**: The "Connector".
- **Function**: Configures `MCPToolset` for remote MCP servers.
- **Servers**:
    - **BigQuery MCP**: `https://bigquery.googleapis.com/mcp` (Auth: ADC)
    - **Maps MCP**: `https://mapstools.googleapis.com/mcp` (Auth: API Key)
- **Local Tools**:
    - `get_store_temperature(store_id)`: Returns mock IoT sensor data.

### 4. Instructions (`agent_instructions.txt`)
- **Role**: The "Rulebook".
- Contains strict protocols for:
    - SQL generation (fuzzy matching, date handling).
    - Business logic (low stock definitions, waste analysis).
    - Output formatting (markdown tables).
    - **Delegation**: When to call the Marketing Agent.

## Tools Description

| Tool | Description | Source |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `query_dataset` | Executes SQL queries. Requires `db-dtypes` and `tabulate` for formatting. | BigQuery |
| `list_tables` | Lists all tables in the `save_the_chickens` dataset. | BigQuery |
| `get_table_schema` | Returns column names and types for a table. | BigQuery |
| `get_store_temperature` | Returns current temperature and status for store freezers. | Mock IoT |
| `consult_marketing_expert` | Delegates creative writing tasks to the Marketing Agent. | A2A (Marketing App) |

## Development

### Adding a New Tool
1.  **Server**: Add a decorated function `@mcp.tool()` in `mcp_server.py`.
2.  **Client**: Add a corresponding `async def` method in `mcp_client.py` that calls `self._run_tool()`.
3.  **Agent**: Register the new client method in the `tools` list in `agent.py`.
4.  **Instructions**: Update `agent_instructions.txt` to tell the agent when to use it.
